docs: cuga component bundle (#10589)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Components/bundles-cuga.mdx

For more information, see the [CUGA project repository](https://github.com/cuga-project/cuga-agent).

## Use the CUGA component in a flow

For demonstration purposes, the following example modifies a template flow to use the **CUGA** component.

![A basic agent chat flow with Chat Input, CUGA, and Chat Output components, as well as various tool and file input.](/img/component-cuga.png)

1. Create a flow based on the **Simple Agent** template, and then replace the **Agent** component with the **CUGA** component.
2. Connect an [**MCP Tools** component](/mcp-client) and a [**Calculator** component](/components-helpers#calculator) to the **CUGA** component's **Tools** port, and then connect the **MCP Tools** component to any MCP server.
    This example connected to a server containing sales data for a business organization.
3. Add a [**Read File** component](/components-data#file), and then connect it to the **CUGA** component's **Policies** port.
    Alternatively, click <Icon name="Scan" aria-hidden="true" /> **Edit text** to open the **Edit text content** pane, and enter your policy directly into the **CUGA** component.

> 4. Create a Markdown file on your computer called `policy.md`, and then insert the following content.

Author: 3 creates the component, 4 creates the markdown file, 5 loads the file

---
title: CUGA
slug: /bundles-cuga
---

import Icon from "@site/src/components/icon";
import PartialParams from '@site/docs/_partial-hidden-params.mdx';

<Icon name="Blocks" aria-hidden="true" /> [**Bundles**](/components-bundle-components) contain custom components that support specific third-party integrations with Langflow.

This page describes the **CUGA (ConfigUrable Generalist Agent)** component.

The CUGA component is an advanced AI agent that executes complex tasks using tools, optional browser automation, and structured output generation.

The CUGA component can be used in flows in place of an [**Agent** component](/agents).

> Like the Langflow agent, the CUGA component can use tools connected to its **Toolset** port, and can be used as a tool itself, but it also includes some additional features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like the core **Agent** component, the **CUGA** component can use tools connected to its **Toolset** port, and can be used as a tool itself.
It also includes some additional features:
```

The CUGA component supports browser automation for web scraping with [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/docs/intro).
To enable web scraping, set the `browser_enabled` parameter to `true`, and specify a single URL in the `web_apps` parameter, in the format `https://example.com`.

The CUGA component includes a specialized API sub-agent optimized for handling API requests and parsing responses.
To use the API sub-agent, set the `API` parameter to `true`.

The CUGA component's **Policies** input allows custom policies to be loaded for the agent to execute.

> A policy is a Markdown file with agent instructions.

Author: Added

For more information, see the [CUGA project repository](https://github.com/cuga-project/cuga-agent).

### Use the CUGA agent in a flow

1. Replace the Langflow agent in the simple agent template flow with the CUGA agent.
2. Connect an [**MCP Tools** component](/mcp-client) and a [**Calculator** component](/components-helpers#calculator) to the CUGA component's **Tools** port.
3. Add a [**Read File** component](/components-data#file), and connect it to the CUGA component's **Policies** port.

>     Alternatively, click <Icon name="Scan" aria-hidden="true" /> **Edit text** to open the **Edit text content** pane, and enter your policy directly into the component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Alternatively, click <Icon name="Scan" aria-hidden="true" /> **Edit text** to open the **Edit text content** pane, and enter your policy directly into the **CUGA** component.
```

> 4. Create a Markdown file on your computer called `policy.md`, and populate it with the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a Markdown file on your computer called `policy.md`, and then insert the following content.
```

>     It's important to clearly format the document with `##Plan` and `##Answer` for the agent to understand your instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    It's important to clearly format the document with `## Plan` and `## Answer` for the agent to understand your instructions.
```

    ```markdown
    ## Plan

    - Break down complex queries into subtasks
    - Prioritize information gathering before execution
    - Consider dependencies between actions
    - Validate intermediate results before proceeding

    ## Answer

    - Provide concise summaries with key findings
    - Include relevant data points and metrics
    - Cite sources when using MCP tool results
    - Use clear structure and formatting for readability
    ```

> 5. In the **Read File** component, click <Icon name="Plus" aria-hidden="true"/> **Add File**, and select the `policy.md` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. In the **Read File** component, click <Icon name="Plus" aria-hidden="true"/> **Add File**, and then attach your `policy.md` file.
```

6. Connect the **MCP Tools** component to an MCP server.
    This example connects to a server containing sales data for a business organization.

    The completed flow looks like this:
    ![A basic agent chat flow with Chat Input, Agent, and Chat Output components.](/img/component-cuga.png)

> 6. Open the **Playground**, and ask the agent a question about the sales data, such as `Which accounts are available?`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Open the **Playground**, and then ask the agent a question that could use your connected MCP server.
This example asked about the sales data provided by the MCP Server, such as `Which accounts are available?`.
```

    The agent describes the tool calls it makes and then returns an answer according to the policy.
    For example, the list of available accounts is very large, but the CUGA component returns a concise summary as requested in the policy.
    ```
    Based on the available data, here are the accounts:

        Apex Industries (NY) - Revenue: $1,200,000
        Phoenix Holdings (CA) - Revenue: $9,500,000
        Zenith Group (TX) - Revenue: $4,500,000
        Frontier Tech (CO) - Revenue: $2,100,000
        Innovate Inc. (CA) - Revenue: $5,500,000
        Cloud Sphere LLC (WA) - Revenue: $4,300,000
        Info Stream Tech (CA) - Revenue: $8,900,000
        Terra Firm Ltd. (CO) - Revenue: $3,200,000
        Red River LLC (TX) - Revenue: $500,000
        Keystone Industries (PA) - Revenue: $3,400,000

    This is a partial list; there are more accounts available. The total revenue across all accounts is $210,200,000.
    ```

> ### Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## CUGA parameters
```

<PartialParams />

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| agent_llm | Dropdown | Model Provider for the agent. |

> | policies | Multiline String | Custom instructions called "policies" that define the agent's planning and answers. See the component example for using policies from Markdown files. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| policies | Multiline String | Custom instructions called "policies" that define the agent's planning and answers. Can be provided directly or through Markdown files. Formatting is important in order for the agent to understand the policy. See [Use the CUGA component in a flow](#use-the-cuga-component-in-a-flow). |
```

> | n_messages | Integer | Number of chat history messages to retrieve. Default: `100`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| n_messages | Integer | Number of chat history messages to retrieve. Useful for maintaining context in ongoing conversations identified by `session_id`. Default: `100`. |
```

| format_instructions | Multiline String | Template for structured output. |
| output_schema | Table | When `output_schema` is provided, structured responses are validated against a dynamically built schema. Invalid items are returned alongside validation errors. Fields: `name`, `description`, `type` (`str`, `int`, `float`, `bool`, `dict`), `multiple` (as list).|
| add_current_date_tool | Boolean | If true, adds a tool that returns the current date. Default: `true`. |
| browser_enabled | Boolean | Enable a built-in browser for web scraping and search. Default: `false`. |

> | web_apps | Multiline String | When `browser_enabled` is true, specify a single URL such as `https://example.com` that the agent can open with the built-in browser.|

Reviewer: does this let you limit the agent's access to the public internet?
